From the New York Times, I'm Rachel
Abrams and this is The Daily.
When Stephen Colbert announced that the
government's increasingly aggressive
stance toward late night meant that he
could not air a planned interview with a
Democratic Senate candidate,
it sent chills throughout the media.
And then, this past weekend, the chair
of the Federal Communications Commission
threatened to punish news outlets over
coverage of the war in Iran.
Today, my colleague Jim Rutenberg
explains how the White House is trying
to shape media coverage of its agenda
and just how far it's willing to go in
its crackdown on network television.
It's Wednesday, March 18th.
Jim Rutenberg, welcome back to the show.
>> Thanks so much for having me.
>> Jim, we've turned to you a few times on
the show now when we have questions
about the media and free speech and
government intervention. And just this
last weekend, in fact, Brendan Carr, the
chairman of the FCC, threatened media
companies by basically implying in a
tweet that he would revoke station
licenses that ran with coverage of the
Iran war that he called, quote, "hoaxes
and distortions."
And between that and the dust-ups he's
had with late night, most recently with
Stephen Colbert, we wanted to have you
on yet again here today
to explain to us what we are seeing play
out on our television screens.
>> What happened over the weekend with
Chairman Carr's tweet was part of a
pattern he's been making threats like
this since he started as the chairman at
the start of Trump's term to
warn stations away from certain content
the administration doesn't like. And
this one was extra alarming to people
because
it was a governmental threat against
station licenses at a time of war when
information is at a premium where the
public really needs to understand what's
going on. But, one thing I want to say
here is this veiled threat he was
making, it's really legally dubious. The
FCC can't go willy-nilly grabbing
licenses because it disagrees with the
content. In fact, it's totally
prohibited under the law. It does have
control over stations licenses, but what
he's talking about to take away licenses
from television stations, it's a very
onerous legal process. So, we'll see how
that plays out. But, we do have other
test cases that are part of the same
campaign where the FCC is really
saber-rattling in a way that we haven't
seen in decades. And we have seen how
far it can go and how serious the
effects can be. And most notably, where
we've seen the rubber really meet the
road has been of all places with
late-night television. More
specifically, the Stephen Colbert show
of CBS.
>> And remind us what happened with
Colbert.
>> Well, it really starts in January. The
FCC notifies broadcasters that we are
going to apply a rule called the equal
time rule to late-night television. And
it says that when candidates for office
are on non-news programming, there has
to be an equal amount of time to all
candidates running for a certain office.
They need equal time on that station.
You're all on notice, we're going to
apply it. So, a few weeks later, when
Stephen Colbert books Talarico on his
show, Talarico is now in a primary
campaign against Jasmine Crockett, CBS's
lawyers notify Stephen Colbert and his
producers, "Hey, you could have a
problem here with the FCC cuz you have
an equal time issue potentially." And
Stephen Colbert and the network disagree
to the extent to which CBS told him not
to air an interview with Talarico or
whether they were just warning him, but
>> Good morning.
>> You know you know who is not one of my
guests tonight? That's Texas State
Representative James Talarico.
>> Stephen Colbert goes on his show and
says that he's been told he can't have
Talarico on. Now, he can't have him on
YouTube, which doesn't fall under the
FCC.
>> And because my network clearly doesn't
want us to talk about this,
let's talk about this.
>> And he really does call attention to
this campaign from this old agency that
people sitting at home hadn't heard of
or hadn't heard about in years.
>> You you might have heard of this thing
called the equal time rule, okay? It's
an old FCC rule that applies only to
radio and broadcast television.
>> He makes a big stink out of this.
>> Let's just call this what it is. Donald
Trump's administration wants to silence
anyone who says anything bad about Trump
on TV, cuz all Trump does is watch TV.
>> And just to be clear, in this specific
example with Colbert, the FCC didn't
tell CBS it couldn't have Talarico on
the show. What we saw was more of a
preemptive move by CBS to avoid
incurring the wrath of the FCC.
>> That's exactly right. This is not an
example of Brendan Carr, the FCC,
saying, "Hey, Stephen Colbert can't have
that person on."
But what is absolutely true here is that
there's no discussion inside of CBS.
If the FCC does not issue this new
guidance on late night television in
January, which is putting the whole late
night world, the whole network world, on
notice that we're really going to be
watching you here. And in so many years
of covering this, Rachel, it was the
first time that I had seen
a moment where a content decision was
made at a major network involving
politics
in direct reaction to a newly declared
policy on the federal government level.
>> Something I've been wondering about
though Jim is just why late night?
Because we've been hearing for years,
right? That late night's numbers are
declining. So, I don't really understand
why the administration would choose to
focus on this segment of television in
particular.
>> Well, I'll tell you and I've talked to
some of the people involved on the
conservative side in this effort. And
what they will say is that broadcast
television is free and every American
can get it without needing a cable
subscription, without needing an
internet subscription. So, it has a
reach that nothing else has to this day.
And where ratings might not be what they
once were, it also lives on online.
Stephen Colbert's bits,
Jimmy Kimmel's bits, they bounce around
online in a way other comedy bits don't.
And that is in part because of this
broadcast platform they have, that it's
still worth something, it's still
valuable. But I think that there's a big
reason that the administration's going
after late night in this moment and it's
not just about reach.
It's about sort of the evolution of late
night television over the years.
Throughout the course of TV history,
late night has carved out this really
unique role in the landscape. One that
has over the years
let it sort of coast along beyond the
reach of the regulators quite a bit. And
so, the FCC said, "Look, maybe this
hasn't been applied in a really long
time, but we are going to hold you to
this equal time standard and you better
come correct."
>> How did late night end up getting such a
privileged position and and end up with
that carve out that you mentioned?
>> Well, it's kind of a long story and it
starts really with the rule we are
talking about, the equal time rule. Let
me bring you, if you will, back to the
1920s.
>> Please.
>> My favorite time.
>> Your broadcasting over W A M
operates on a frequency of 1120
kilocycles.
>> People forget this, but when radio was
new in the 1920s,
the government and the radio industry
were grappling with this new thing,
radio.
It's doing something that's never been
done in human history. It is reaching
millions of people at once
electronically with sound, very
evocative.
>> Mhm.
>> But the industry was having a very hard
time at the beginning of the radio days
because anyone could get a transmitter
and throw up a signal on any frequency.
And so radio was a complete mess.
Competing signals, static. The industry
needed government to come and sort it
out. So government basically said,
"We're taking control of this.
>> Mhm.
>> We're going to issue licenses for the
exclusive use of certain station
frequencies, but in return,
because of this power you are going to
have, we are going to expect you to do
certain things to make sure it's used
responsibly. This could really affect
politics because whoever owns the
station will get to dictate everything,
what people think.
>> Right.
>> So what they came up with were rules
that said you couldn't use a radio
station to give one-sided versions of
the most controversial issues in town.
You can't give one candidate the
advantage. And so the equal time rule
comes about to say if you give one
candidate advertising time at a certain
rate for a certain amount of time, then
you have to give the other. And if you
have one on,
you have to have the other on. This This
is now we're talking about candidates.
They have to be candidates.
>> And just to explain that a little bit,
the protocol here is that the network
has to figure out some way to give the
other person some program, some
advertisement that gets like what, the
same reach or
>> Right. It's got to have the same You
can't like give them time at 4:00 in the
morning, right? It's got to have similar
ratings. It's got to be free and it's
got to be the same amount of time. So
over the years, this transfers over to
television, but society is continually
evolving, politics is continually
evolving, media is continually evolving.
And by the 1950s, the way this gets
applied, all these rules, it starts to
change.
For instance, around debates,
sometimes you have 20 people running for
the same office and 17 of whom don't
have a shot in heck, I'll say.
>> Good. This is a clean family show.
No FCC guidance for this.
>> So they needed to be the good one. But
in all seriousness,
what do you do when you have 17
candidates all clamoring for equal time?
The stations were able to argue quite
convincingly, we need an exemption here.
We can't have debates where you have to
give 17 candidates equal time every
time. It's just completely unworkable.
We have to be left to our own devices
when it comes to something like a
debate.
>> Mhm.
>> That's a news event. News judgment has
to reign supreme there, where the news
people decide who is worthy of the
debate. So news gets exempted,
documentaries, they're basically news,
too. They need to be exempted. So you
have all these exemptions getting added.
>> And they're getting added because the
government realized that we should not
be refereeing the minutes of airtime on
a news broadcast because a news
broadcast should be dictated based on
what is newsworthy.
>> Yeah, there's this presumption that news
people operate in good faith, they do
their best, the government has to stay
out of their way, and they apply a term
to this idea, bonafide news. That's
legit news that news people are going to
be trusted to present to the best of
their ability, that will be
non-partisan, journalistically valid,
and serving the public interest.
>> Mhm.
>> So that becomes the new understanding of
the equal time rule. But the rule still
very much applies to anything that might
be considered entertainment. So if you
have a candidate come on a game show or
something, that would trigger the equal
time rule. If you have a candidate on a
news show, the equal time does not
apply. Very simple, right? In the 1950s,
it makes a lot of sense. These two
worlds are
pretty much completely separate.
>> Got it.
>> But, over the years, the worlds of
entertainment and news, they start to
come together a lot more.
And applying this equal time rule starts
to get a lot more complicated.
>> How so?
>> So, you have on the one hand more and
more entertainers entering the world of
politics.
>> Someday when the team's up against it
>> Exhibit A, Ronald Reagan. Most people
knew him as an actor before he was
running. He's now a politician and he
runs for governor of California, then
president.
>> Ask him to go in there with all they've
got.
Win just one for the Gipper.
>> That's causing problems for stations
that run his old movies and they're all
over TV. So, candidates who are running
against him can go to the stations and
say, "Hey, I want 2 hours of free
airtime to make up for that." And those
television stations would stand to lose
a lot of money if they have to start
giving away 2 hours of time.
>> Mhm.
>> And then at the same time, it's coming
back the other way.
You have politicians trying their hand
at entertainment. They're increasingly
showing up on late-night talk shows.
Bill Clinton, he sort of changes the
game. He goes on Arsenio Hall's show,
late-night program, and he doesn't just
sit and talk about the issues or make
himself relatable. He goes and he plays
the saxophone. Mr. Hip.
>> Did you ever think about playing
professionally?
>> Yeah, and I like it tonight. I like
being on the other side of the posse.
>> Yeah.
Speaking of
>> what your drummer said?
>> What?
>> He said if this music thing doesn't work
out, you can run for president.
>> Is that news? Entertainment? It's all
mixing together now. And this pitches
the whole late night world into this
regulatory legal nether region that no
one quite knows what to do with.
>> Mhm.
>> Finally though, in the mid-2000s, the
FCC has to weigh in.
>> And what happened then?
>> Well, it has to do with the Tonight Show
when it was hosted by Jay Leno.
In 2003,
when Arnold Schwarzenegger was running
for governor in California, he found a
very friendly platform with Jay Leno and
the Tonight Show on NBC.
>> Unashamedly bringing showbiz to
politics, Arnold Schwarzenegger chose
the Jay Leno Tonight Show to announce
he's running for office.
>> When Schwarzenegger announced that he
was running for governor of California,
he did it on Leno.
>> And this is why I'm going to run for
governor of the state of
>> Leno, I have to note, also had spoken at
a Schwarzenegger victory party. I mean,
Leno and Schwarzenegger were like having
It was like a buddy movie.
>> Welcome back. We're talking with the
governor of California, Arnold
Schwarzenegger. I still get a kick out
of saying that, "The governor of
California." Cuz we go back 20 You and I
were at the Playboy Club together in
'77. The Playboy The Playboy Mansion,
remember that?
>> And Schwarzenegger was on Leno again and
again and again.
>> I've been working on my impression of
you.
>> Man, this is the worst impression I've
ever heard. What's the matter with you?
>> I think such as that you say it is so
bad.
>> You see how bad this is? Do I talk like
that?
>> You talk exactly like that.
>> I'm going to reinstate the car tax for
you.
>> Really? Really?
>> Now, fast forward to when Arnold's
running again. He's now governor for
re-election in 2006.
And the Democrat, Phil Angelides, starts
saying, "Hey, this isn't fair."
Leno is giving Schwarzenegger this huge
platform.
They're friends.
So, Angela Davis says, "Hey, I want
equal time." And the FCC is going to
have to adjudicate here. Because NBC is
not inclined to give it.
And the FCC takes a look
and says, "You know what? This is a
bonafide news interview. We do not think
it's being used for partisan purposes.
So, we are going to say that the Tonight
Show is exempt here." That was very
specific to that situation. But, all of
late night took that to mean if the FCC
said that's okay, then that was sort of
taken as, "All right, well, that's an
extreme case and that's fine. So, off we
go."
>> So, basically, because the FCC decided
that this case still counted as bonafide
news, the rest of late night interpreted
that to mean we must have really broad
latitude. We can do whatever we want. We
can have whoever we want on for however
long, and we are not subject to these
rules.
>> Pretty much. I mean, and the FCC did not
enforce it. So, after this Leno ruling
and after late night takes this as a
sort of blanket exemption, we have
another shift in late night that we
should really note here.
And that's in the Bush years, the late
night hosts start becoming even more
political.
>> All right, nice to see you. Let's start
tonight WITH OUR CONTINUING COVERAGE OF
MESS-O-POTAMIA.
As you know, we went to Iraq.
>> They're led a little bit by Jon Stewart.
>> How many Iraqi citizens have died
in this war?
Um I would say 30,000, more or less.
>> Well, it's nice to see the president
estimating casualties with the same
inflection you use to guess how many
jelly beans are in a jar.
>> He's not under the FCC thumb the same
way. He's on Comedy Central with his
Daily Show.
>> Right, he's on cable, not broadcast.
>> Yes, but also Stewart is having amazing
success, so he's influencing the
broadcast guys.
>> Good news, the White House has now
released a 35-page plan entitled our
national strategy for victory in Iraq.
President Bush refuses to accept a
timetable uh for reading it, but he
thinks that it will
>> And all of late night starts getting
much more political.
>> times right now. President Bush doing
his best to respond
to the crisis.
>> I love that that gets giggles when
That's not even a joke. That's just
>> And much more sort of liberal-leaning.
>> occasion, ladies and gentlemen, today
was the one-year anniversary of Donald
Trump winning the presidency.
Now, the traditional one-year
anniversary gift is paper, so if you
want to get Trump something, you can't
go wrong with a federal indictment.
>> They're often saving their sharpest
barbs for
Trump especially, but Republican
politicians across the board.
>> Please welcome back to the Late Show,
Vice President Joseph R. Biden.
>> And over the years, more and more of
their guests are Democrats.
>> Can you like can you run down to the
kitchen in your underpants in the middle
of the night if you're hungry?
>> I mean, I could. I I I don't.
>> You don't.
>> No.
>> Is there someone in the
>> And that continues to harden through the
Trump years.
So that late night, you know, when Leno
is there with Schwarzenegger, this is
shocking. Years later now, late night
has become much more a forum for
politics and one that just favors one
side of the spectrum.
But the FCC, whether it's under
Democratic control, Republican control,
even Trump's control in the first term,
the FCC is letting it mostly happen.
They're not really wading into late
night
until last year.
>> We'll be right back.
Okay, so Jim, that decision that you
described about Leno from the FCC,
that basically became the prevailing
wisdom that guided late night for years,
even though late night was becoming more
and more partisan.
So, tell us about how the enforcement by
the government of that old rule starts
to pick back up. Like, when and how did
that come to a head?
>> Well, it comes to a head because of this
little-known lawyer from Wisconsin named
Daniel Suhr.
>> I love the your old schoolness, right?
Like, we're not scared of the phone.
Like, we're going to have an actual
>> No, there's a recorder here.
>> And I got to to spend a lot of time
talking with him, including a visit in
Milwaukee. And it's kind of a long
journey he goes on
to become really
one of the chief antagonists of late
night TV right now.
>> I started out as a free market
conservative, right? And
>> So, Daniel Suhr is basically a rising
star conservative lawyer. He had worked
for years on, you know, real classic
conservative causes. And a couple years
ago, with a colleague of his, he founded
a nonprofit law firm called the Center
for American Rights.
They are not doing anything.
And never in his career, from what I
could see, had he done anything relating
to
television, broadcast rules, the FCC.
>> It really started with the debate.
>> ABC debate.
>> Yeah, the ABC debate.
>> But, as he tells it, things changed for
him in the fall of 2024, when he watches
that first and only debate between
Donald J. Trump and Kamala Harris.
>> The fact-checking seemed so
egregiously
one-sided.
>> Trump is saying things like they're
eating the cats and they're eating the
dogs in Springfield, Ohio.
>> Mhm.
>> The moderators are cutting in to fact
check him. They're not fact checking
Kamala Harris. Trump is furious. After
the debate, he says, "They ought to take
ABC's license away." Cuz one thing I
want to remind people is in Trump's
first term, what you did hear him say a
lot of times was pull their license,
pull their license.
And sir, he's hearing Trump and he's
been thinking about this, well, what
what does that mean? How do you pull a
license?
>> And so, we do what lawyers do. We
research it, you know, we read the law,
we get into it.
>> And he learns about the history that you
and I just spoke about.
>> Communications Commission has always
said
>> He looks at the law and all these laws
are based on this idea in the law, the
public interest, convenience, and
necessity.
>> Like I just I can't believe given that
they're public airwaves that, you know,
it's essentially a unreported,
unregulated campaign contributions to
the Trump party. It's like, how's that
legal?
>> What he said was, "Look, I didn't even
realize the extent of these public
interest rules." And so, to him, it's
shocking that these networks are allowed
to behave this way.
>> seem to be this, you know, massive
one-sided love fest.
>> He's always thought that they're biased.
>> The media also holds its own kind of
power that needs to be held accountable.
That's part of
>> And he sees that you can make challenges
to certain stations if you think they're
in violation.
And he files a complaint against an ABC
station in Philadelphia. It happens to
be where the debate happened. He could
have filed it at any station, but that's
where he does it. And he goes on when
Trump is screaming bloody murder about a
CBS interview with Kamala Harris on 60
Minutes that Trump is alleging was
edited to make her look better, sir
finds a way to file a complaint against
the FCC on that. He finds a term called
news distortion. He brings a complaint
on that basis. But the idea in both of
these cases is that these networks are
so partisan that they are not serving
the public interest and that what they
are presenting is not bonafide news.
It's partisan content meant to sway the
audience.
>> So, what Daniel Ser, this lawyer, is
doing with these complaints is he's
basically going back in time and he's
saying the FCC wanted to make
programming not biased, right? But, the
carve-outs that they subsequently made
for news, where they said that, "You
know what? If you're a news program, we
trust your journalistic judgment, go
forth." He's basically saying
that does not apply in today's world.
These news programs, they need more of a
referee. And so, these complaints are
basically saying
"We need to take a much closer look at
these networks to see if they're
actually running a foul of the
regulations."
>> Yeah, exactly. But, the reason it really
caught my eye is I've studied these
rules, how they came about, for years
and years. And my conservative sources,
when I talked to them about media, have
always said these rules are an
abomination, they violate everything we
believe in as conservatives. We don't
want the government messing in content.
And so, we shall not really take rules
like this seriously. And Daniel Ser
represents this new strain
>> Mhm.
>> of conservative in the Trump era that's
saying, "No, no, no, we went too far."
Now, you know, I'll let people draw
their own conclusions about the
conservative movement that felt this so
loudly and now is saying that it
doesn't. But, what he is saying is that
we as conservatives believe in the
market, but sometimes the market doesn't
solve all problems. And in this case,
it's gotten so biased and the market's
not solving it. And so, why have we
allowed this to happen? I'm going to
file these complaints. And before the
Biden administration leaves office, the
FCC Chair, Jessica Rosenworcel, asked
her enforcement division at the FCC to
take a look at these Ser complaints. And
they found that they carried no weight.
There was no legal merit to them. So,
they rejected those. And for good
measure, they also threw out a complaint
lodged by a liberal group against a Fox
station in Philadelphia relating to
stolen election coverage on Fox News
back from 2020. So, they're all
invalidated.
>> So, how much of a deterrent is that to
Daniel Sir to get all of his complaints
thrown out?
>> Well, it's not a deterrent at all
because Brendan Carr, the incoming FCC
chair, was publicly kind of validating
Sir's complaints and taking them very
seriously.
>> And remind us quickly who is Brendan
Carr and what does he believe?
>> So, Brendan Carr is a long-time FCC
Commissioner, had been a staff-level
lawyer before that. So, very rooted in
communications law. But, very much
Trump's kind of guy, come at least
coming in to this second term.
>> It doesn't seem to have been a focus,
these public interest rules and for you
previously, right? And and in first like
it seems like a newer issue for you. Is
that partly a Daniel Sir showing up
after ABC and saying, "Hey, wait a
minute."
>> And he would later tell me that Daniel
Sir really lights the way for him.
>> And it so speaks to what Trump wants to
see in a second term in terms of a a
media that's going to behave differently
toward him.
>> And one of the first things that Carr
does when he takes the chairmanship over
after the inauguration is he reinstates
all of those complaints, not the Fox
complaint.
>> Okay, so everything you're talking about
is news, news, news, right? So, how does
Daniel Sir take this from the news
ecosystem and bring it into late night?
>> Well, interestingly now, Daniel Sir has
the wind at his back, right? He's got
the ear of the FCC chair. He's cooking
with gas on this issue, and he starts to
look around and he notices that there's
an even bigger opportunity than
broadcast news.
And that's when he comes to late night.
>> I would say late night is where the
cultural power of celebrity
is lent to the Democratic Party.
>> How are these late night hosts able to
so tilt their programming toward the
Democrats?
>> You watch
the evening news.
>> Yeah.
>> It may have a slant that makes you think
about the world a certain way,
but that's different from seeing your
favorite actors and your favorite
influencers
and your favorite comedians
constantly showering
praise on those same politicians.
>> And he writes a letter to Carr citing
some study showing that late night is
like they have more liberals on. And in
early September
he actually files a complaint against
Jimmy Kimmel.
>> Mhm.
>> And that's against the LA station, ABC
station. He says, basically same idea.
Kimmel is tilting his show toward one
side, and you know, this is
unacceptable.
>> Mhm.
>> And Rachel, literally days later
an assassin shoots and kills Charlie
Kirk. And Jimmy Kimmel, as you remember,
does this very controversial monologue.
>> Right.
>> Thank you for joining us after uh
>> where he implies
that the shooter could be a MAGA fan.
>> with the MAGA gang desperately trying to
characterize this kid who murdered
Charlie Kirk as anything other than one
of them and doing everything they can.
And
>> This is a new low.
>> People, especially in Trump world, go
crazy over that.
>> He's either trolling or just stupid. I'm
not sure which, maybe both.
>> Oh, I'm going with stupid on this one.
>> A liberal comedian trying to pin this
murder on a Trump person.
>> He didn't imply it. He said it.
>> of one of our great heroes.
>> One of the most asinine things I've ever
heard.
>> Conspiracy land, literally.
>> And you know, it ends up that the person
is not anything at all like that.
>> It's negligence at best to not already
know that if you're Jimmy Kimmel, but
clearly he doesn't care.
>> And so Carr
>> When you look at the conduct that has
taken place by Jimmy Kimmel
>> in this maelstrom
steps up to say on a podcast you know
what?
>> There's a very concerted effort to try
to lie to the American people.
>> This could be violative of the public
interest.
>> These companies can find ways to change
conduct and take action
frankly on Kimmel or you know, there's
going to be additional work for the FCC
ahead.
>> ABC's hereby basically on notice.
>> I mean, look, we can do this the easy
way or the hard way.
>> I can do this the easy way or the hard
way and the implicit threat there is
that ABC's station licenses can be in
trouble and ABC does suspend Kimmel's
programming for several days. This is
like the first real shock to the system
that wow, the FCC's now really coming
for late night.
So that's the beginning of it, but for
Sir and Carr, late night is on the
radar. Which finally brings us up to
January
when the FCC under Carr
really institutionalizes their push
against late night. You know, the Kimmel
instance was a bit more ad hoc, right?
That happened in the moment.
But now they put out this formal
announcement that says, here's the new
policy. We are going to apply this old
standard of equal time
to the late night talk shows more
regularly. You're on notice. By the way,
that Leno exemption, that was for Leno
in 2006. We do not see it as applying to
anything else. You've all been getting
away with something and there's a new
sheriff in town and it's over.
>> So, basically this lawyer from
Wisconsin, Daniel Carr, who had no
previous experience in media law, he's
the one who essentially put the equal
time rule on Brendan Carr's radar,
right? And that is what has gotten us to
this moment, this campaign that we are
now seeing from the FCC against late
night, and ultimately this Colbert
interview getting taken off the air.
>> Very much so. And what's also clear is
that this campaign is ongoing. Now, it's
been announced in the last several weeks
that in fact the FCC is investigating
The View
>> Mhm.
>> for bias and equal time violations. And
The View
>> late night.
>> Not late night, but it's a talk show and
it's if anything The View is a very
powerful television show, still seen
across the country, delves into politics
with pretty reliable voters who watch it
every day.
>> How exactly is Carr proposing going
after these shows? Like, not only what
are the mechanics of that, but can he
just unilaterally undo the exemption
here?
>> I mean, on the exemption what he's
arguing is that he's not undoing
anything, that that exemption was for
Leno and it doesn't apply. Now, there's
something very important that we have to
mention here.
And that is that legally I've yet to
find a lawyer who has said, "Yes, the
FCC has a very strong case to take away
licenses in XYZ case that Brendan Carr
is talking about." It's just nobody
thinks that.
>> Mhm.
>> The networks themselves don't think
that, but the threat itself is very
powerful. It's not in any major media
company's interest to be on the wrong
side of the federal government when the
federal government's willing to dangle
punishment. So, you know, even if the
networks had won in court, do you want
to be in court for months or longer with
the federal government? Nobody wants it.
>> I want to embody Daniel Carr's argument
for a moment and perhaps Brendan Carr's
perspective as well. That television
should be less biased. We should get
this partisanship out of our
programming. That goes back to the
spirit of when these laws were first
created. So, I can imagine why people
would feel like late-night television
has gotten away with something for very,
very long, and this is a correction back
to the initial positive spirit with
which these rules were intended.
>> Well, that is what Chairman Carr is
saying. He told me that personally, but
he said it elsewhere time and time
again, that all I'm doing is enforcing
the law.
>> Mhm.
>> And I've heard from a lot of experts
here, even liberal policy experts who
actually think the FCC's on solid ground
here in terms of the equal time rule,
that late-night has strayed too far. But
even they questioned, is Carr evenly
applying the rules? Could you, should
you be applying this then to talk radio?
You could make an argument that talk
radio could fall under this equal time
rule if they have guests on within
certain election windows. Sean Hannity
is on Fox News at night, but he's got
one of the biggest talk shows in radio,
millions of listeners. Should he get
into trouble if he has a political guest
on around an election?
>> Right. I mean, radio is not only the
thing that started many of these
regulations, but radio is huge.
>> Yeah, talk radio is
on a weekly basis millions and millions
of people, millions. I mean, if you took
the collective audience for talk radio
every day across all the conservative
shows, I mean, you'd dwarf a lot of
what's on television in general. And
there's even an argument that's getting
made out there that in very technical
terms, if you're going to really follow
the letter of the law, that when it
comes to this very specific equal time
rule, that cable could even fall under
its terms. Which, of course, would
really open up a whole can of worms with
networks like Fox News. So, the
application of the law could really go
far if you're taking it that literally.
But I think that there's a bigger play
here. And Daniel would tell you there's
a bigger play here.
>> One of my hopes is that we
clear the way
for family-friendly
faith-inspired
patriotic content.
>> And the hope that Daniel has, certainly
that Brendan Carr has, is that they were
going to forever now change the network
dynamic.
>> It's not just that balance means getting
all this liberal stuff off the air,
right? It's saying that
that red state consumers
deserve content they want, too, from
their broadcaster, right? And And my
hope is that as we,
you know, see shifts in the media
landscape, we get more of that, right?
And And And
>> This is interesting because he's arguing
that the FCC is not just going to
oversee some kind of great balancing act
here, but that it actually might use its
power to promote a certain kind of
programming for a certain kind of
audience with a certain kind of taste,
which sounds like an activist FCC,
right? And I can imagine that some
people might hear that and think,
"Well, what happens if the other side of
the aisle is in power?"
>> That's the warning from those
conservatives that still view
the FCC and its power here as as
anathema to to their ideology. So,
Senator Ted Cruz has warned that if this
happens now under us, the Democrats are
going to do it to our people. Ben
Shapiro has said that. Joe Rogan has
made us issue a similar warning that if
this happens here, the other side's
going to do it.
>> Mhm.
>> So, there's a presumption among some on
the right that this is opening up a
Pandora's Box that's best left closed.
>> But clearly the administration is not
persuaded by that argument, right?
Because as we said at the top of this
episode, Brendan Carr over the weekend
is basically doubling down on this
strategy of going after coverage that he
does not like and trying to influence
coverage specifically of the war.
What can we say about the various ways
this could play out going forward?
>> Greta, I want to note first of all that
there was more Republican blowback this
weekend with Carr's Iran-related
message. Notably, the Republican senator
from Wisconsin, Ron Johnson. There was
also a lot of back and forth on social
media between policy experts and Carr
himself and journalists
as to what he could really do here. But,
that said, this is an amazing amount of
pressure on the networks to tow the line
during war with real threats of
governmental punishment.
And let's remember, aside from Iran, we
also have the congressional midterms
coming up this fall.
What happens if some of those elections
are disputed over these flimsy
allegations of fraud we saw in 2020?
How's that going to be handled? And is
the FCC going to weigh in there?
And then, let's bring it back to the
late-night shows. The administration has
made it clear that they see those as
part of the political arena. Are these
late-night shows going to stop booking
politicians altogether?
The short of it is, you know, we'll wait
and we'll see. But, in our lifetimes, we
have never seen the federal government
get involved this much in content
decisions and policing content decisions
on broadcast television.
>> Jim Ruttenberg, thank you as always.
>> Thanks so much for having me.
>> We'll be right back.
>> Here's what else you need to know today.
Israel said it had dealt double blows to
the upper echelons of Iran's leadership
on Tuesday,
killing Ali Larajani, the head of the
country's Supreme National Security
Council, and Brigadier General
Gholamreza Soleimani, the head of a
powerful militia aligned with the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps.
The killings were announced hours before
President Trump lashed out again against
NATO allies who have rebuffed his
attempts to draw them into the war in
Iran.
Speaking in the Oval Office, he said the
United States did not, quote, need or
desire any help to open the Strait of
Hormuz, and added that he was, quote,
disappointed in NATO.
And one of the United States' top
counterterrorism officials resigned on
Tuesday, citing his opposition to the
war in Iran and what he said was
Israel's influence over the Trump
administration's policies. The official,
Joe Kent, is the first senior member of
the administration to quit over the war.
Quote, "I cannot in good conscience
support the ongoing war in Iran," Mr.
Kent wrote in a letter to Mr. Trump.
Quote, "Iran posed no imminent threat to
our nation, and it is clear that we
started this war due to pressure from
Israel and its powerful American lobby."
Today's episode was produced by Alex
Stern, Ricky N'vetzky, Mary Wilson, and
Diana Wynn.
It was edited by Rob Zipko with help
from Michael Benoist.
Fact-checked by Susan Lee, and contains
music by Pat McCusker, Marion Lozano,
Dan Powell, Rowena Umisto, and Alicia
Ba'it Tube.
Our theme music is by Wonderly.
This episode was engineered by Chris
Wood.
That's it for The Daily. I'm Rachel
Abrams. See you tomorrow.
>> Mhm.